Added testing section in Frontend category (#60)
infinum/frontend-handbook: Frontend/Testing.md

errors, bugs and defects by checking all these before it is deployed and used by users, and it also
helps identify missing or partially implemented requirements.

You can test software by running it and checking all parts manually, or you can write tests that will
do this for you.

Tests in our development domain are nothing more than code - functions and variables - used to
test other, production functions and variables.

You use some approach or multiple approaches to make sure your code will not crash or behave
unexpectedly, and that when in production it will work as your requirements describe.

These approaches for stable software can be various, and it can be divided into a lot of categories
and groups.

We will talk about this later, because we still have not answered to why testing is important.

So why should you test your software even manually?

Because bugs can cause financial loss, for example in stock exchange or on your bank account and
more important because software malfunctioning can endanger people.
In 1985 several patients died of radiation overdose resulted from a race condition in code.
In 1994 aeroplane crashed due to bug killing 264 people.

> Same year helicopter crashed and killed 29 people because flying system went down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Same year, a helicopter crashed and killed 29 people because flying system went down.
```

The list goes on.

Maybe you are thinking now doing small projects or projects that cannot put anyone in danger
will not have any consequences, but losing users and clients is something that you do not want to
happen.

After all, will your boss be happy because of you developing broken software?

> Or you might be thinking that testing means more time to deliver software, and it will take you really

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or you might be thinking that testing means more time to deliver software, and it will be really
```

slow, but searching for that one character bug that destroys large application flow is more time-consuming and expensive - and stressful.

### Types of testing

There are lots of types, categories, groupings and ways of testing, again we are referring to
software testing.

We will mention some of them, but feel free to look on the Internet for more

> because list can go long and classification can vary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
because the list can go long and classification can vary.
```

Common types you will find are:
1. Unit testing

    Unit testing is testing the smallest testable part like a function or method.
    You usually check if for specific input, to a function for example, you get specific output.
    Or if function returns nothing, you might test if something else was done inside its body like other
    function call or some variable being modified.

>     Unit testing usually do developers who wrote the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Unit testing is usually done by the same developers who wrote the code.
```

>     One thing to remember is that you do not test code that is it not yours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    One thing to remember is that you do not test code that is not yours.
```

    You do not test if React will call componentDidMount or not, or that JSX will be compiled correctly,
    or that some external function will do whatever it should be doing.
    External libraries and code should already have their tests.
    This will be emphasized again later.

2. Integration testing

    Since we know what are unit tests, we can now describe what are integration tests and what is
    integration testing.

>     Basically, it is testing of units combined and tested as group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Basically, it is testing of units combined and tested as a group.
```

    Purpose of these tests are checking if interaction between units is correct and that there are no
    faults.
    
    It is more complex than unit testing, and sometimes you also need to have some configuration.
    For example if you test that after some „add“ button click, your list will have one item more.

>     These tests usually do code authors as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    These tests are usually done by the code authors as well.
```

    have some different button that should do something else and so on.
    This part can be automatized by tests which does this for you: clicking on a UI, expecting components
    to be shown with correct data, typing in fields etc.
    This type of tests can be done by other testers.

    You can come across system testing being similar with end to end testing (often written as e2e).
    We will give one point of view since this is quite debatable.
    Let's say we have application that has list of items on homepage and next to each item there is add
    to cart action.
    After adding at least 1 item, going to cart is available.
    In the cart there is summary of selected items and action to purchase it which goes to payment
    service and after payment is done it should return to home page.
    System testing will test if we can add items, go to cart, go to purchase and go back.
    End to end testing will be testing same as system testing, but additionally, our balance should be
    lowered for correct amount, and correct amount should be added to seller, correct items should be
    ordered and so on.
    So like a real world application usage.

>     As you can already see, end to end testing is really difficult to be done with automatic tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    As you can already see, end to end testing is really difficult to do with automatic tests.
```

>     This kind of tests usually do QA people since it might require separate database and backend from staging/development one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This kind of tests is usually done by QA people, since it might require a separate database and backend from staging/development one.
```

Above list of testing types can be also called functional and there are more than these types.
There are also non-functional testing types, like:
- Performance testing
- Stress testing
- Security testing
- Localization testing
- Acceptance testing
- And more...

> Remember, what and how should software is tested and by whom depends on your organization,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember, what and how should software be tested and by whom depends on your organization,
```

Test passes.

We see opportunity to refactor both in code and test.
There is check for empty and for exactly three arguments.
We can leave them both, or remove empty check since it is covered by this second test.

Let's remove empty check to clean code.
Next we need to check if first and second arguments are numbers, and last one string.

- calculator should throw error if invalid types passed for arguments

We write code to check for types.
Test passes.

Then

- calculator should throw error if operation type is invalid

We test that string is correct value which can be 'ADD', 'SUBTRACT' and so on - whatever our
interface will provide.
Code will be added and test passes.

Then there is that HUGE check if dividing with 0.

- calculator should not have 0 for 2nd number with 'DIV' operation type

Code for that and test passes.

You might be yelling 'Where is calculation implementation!'.
We go step by step and here we first assure that usage is correct, and then functionality should be
added.

Can you see how these checks are describing usage similar to your requirements?
This is very important.
Imagine someone goes to your tests first.

> He can know what your code does, if we assume that tests pass, without going to source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They can know what your code does, if we assume that tests pass, without going to source.
```
Better to use they instead of he/she since it's more inclusive.

And finally refactor phase (also known as yellow phase) where you remove code duplication, clean a bit, make variable names
better and so on.
One change, one execution of all tests.
If something fails, go back to where you have been before.
It is easy with IDEs and Undo action.

And then you repeat all steps for new test.

This is as we said simplified version of TDD.
TDD sounds easy but is hard to master and requires a lot of practice.
TDD does not mean only unit testing, but it is mostly used for that.

Unit tests are okay, but not sufficient to be sure that software is working properly so you also
need to test it with different types of testing.

Remember, 'Test it before you waste it', and we mean code.

### Team player

When working on a project as a team you decide 
* how your code will be structured, 
* what tools should be used in development, 
* what are your and general best practices, 
* and so on...

It is not different when deciding these points (and more) for application testing.

There are some "laws" created by community and us which need to be followed, but rest is on you and your team.

> Main point is that everyone is on the same page after made decisions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main point is that everyone is on the same page after the decisions are made.
```
